---
layout: post
title:  "Intro to 6502 SBC"
date:   2014-12-29 12:54
categories: 6502-SBC
---

*TL;DR: I've decided to build a single board computer around the 6502 processor I found in an abandoned military baracks.*

I've always been enamoured with the glory days of computing, when computer 'nerds' didn't just program computers but designed and built them from chips ordered from dusty old catalogues. In a lot of ways I feel like we have lost a lot of grounding and experience; programming on top of layers of abstraction so deep, sometimes I forget there is silicon down there, but I digress. Along those lines, I have often thought about trying my hand at building a computer the old fashioned way, either around a 6502 or z80, two of the most popular 80's processors.

Cut to this past summer. I was interning in California and my dad came out to visit around the 4th of July break. We spent a few days in a rental car, exploring the coast and the wine country south of the Bay Area along Route 1. On our way back we got a bit lost and ended up driving past what appeared to be a bunch of abandoned wooden barracks along the side of the road. Always up for adventure we decided to check out the area. We wandered through a few of the decaying buildings, taking in all the sites -- stacks of modling newspapers, interesting graffiti, piles of used clothing strewn across the lawns -- and finally happened upon a room with a heating tank. On the wall was an electronics lock box broken open and partially smashed; ribbon cables pouring out like some disembowled creature. Always looking for electronic parts to scavenge, I opened the box further to see what it held. Inside was a circuit board which looked to have belonged to some sort of long forgotten irrigation system. I checked the board over and what do I find? None other than a beautiful, albiet slightly rusted, 6502 processor along with a 6522 VIA support chip! This might not seem like much, but for me it seemed like a sign from above that it was time... I was going to build my 6502 single board computer(SBC) around this processor!

I've begun to design my little 6502 SBC and have decided on the following parts: 

- 1x		6502 Processor
- 1x		6522 VIA (Versatile Interface Adapter)
- 1x		6551 ACIA (Asynchronous Communications Interface Adapter)
- 2x 		28C64A ROM (8k EEPROM)
- 1x		CY7C199 RAM (32k Static RAM)
- 1x		LCD Display TBD

And decoder glue logic (74XXX chips most likely) and oscillators. That's all I've got so far, more updates soon!
